# An-evidence-enabled-preference-disaggregation-model-for-lung-nodule-auxiliary-diagnosis

With the increasing threat of lung cancer to human life, it has been a hot issue to establish an interpretable and trusted lung nodule auxiliary diagnosis model that integrates domain experts’ preferences and medical evidence from historical data with artificial intelligence technologies. Traditional auxiliary diagnosis algorithms were usually based on deep learning (DL) algorithms from images directly, which often can only handle straightforward cases and cannot reflect the diagnosis and preferences of radiologists in an interpretable way. To overcome such a fundamental weakness, to develop the capability to accurately and interpretively diagnose complicated cases, this study focuses on exploring a preference and evidence-enabled interpretable lung nodule auxiliary diagnosis based on image annotations. Since collected annotations are not always completely reliable owing to unclear nodules and inexperienced radiologists, we propose a method to depict the reliability of annotations. In addition, we establish a preference disaggregation model to identify the preferences of radiologists. A piecewise marginal value function based on reference points is constructed to explore marginal values for shape features of lung nodules. The evidential reasoning (ER) approach with reliability is introduced to aggregate uncertain annotations. To solve the preference disaggregation model, we provide experiments under three different optimization methods,  and then establish a lung nodule auxiliary diagnosis model. The proposed model is applied to the LIDC-IDRI dataset and comparative analysis validates the effectiveness of the model.

**How to use**:
* *fang_model1*  is our designed model. *fang_fmin*, *fang_fminSL* and *fang_GA* use different optimization methods to solve the optimization problem in our model: TRM, SQP and genetic algorithm.
* *fang_model2* and  *fang_model3* are comparative models used in section 6, *fang_model2_fim* and  *fang_model3_fim* are corresponding solving method which use TRM solver.
* The files under the folder *input data* are the data files used in the experiments.
* The files under the folder *result* show the results of the experiments: comparative results in section 6.3, and results from different optimization methods in Section 5.4.2.
* More detail could be checked in our paper. The paper link will be provided in the future.

